the world we live in is made of things
billions and billions of different
things like pickles and pianos dump
trucks and octopi and even though these
things seem totally different they're
all made of the same stuff just combined
in different ways to give you an idea of
how this combining works let's take
something apart let's start with this
bowl of macaroni salad if you were to
reverse a recipe for macaroni salad
you'll see it's made by mixing together
a bunch of ingredients like macaroni
Mayo vinegar vegetables and mustard this
type of combining is called a mixture
when you make a mixture you're combining
two or more things together without
actually changing the chemical identity
of those things like mud for example the
soil and water in mud haven't actually
changed they're still soil and water
you've just created a mixture of soil
and water mud it turns out that macaroni
salad is actually a mixture of mixtures
because many of the ingredients like
mayo and mustard are already mixtures
themselves which is nice for us because
if we look closely we'll see the three
main types of mixtures that exist the
size of the particles in a mixture
determines the type of mixture on one
end of the scale is a suspension like
our muddy water example you get this if
you take big chunks of something and mix
it with something else
so those chunks are just floating around
take runny mustard for example you'll
see a bunch of little particles like
mustard seeds pepper allspice and minced
shallots all floating around in a liquid
in this case vinegar water this is
called a suspension because you've got
particles of one thing suspended in
another now on the other end of the
spectrum is a solution the particles in
this mixture are so small they are the
actual molecules a solution is sort of
like a suspension of molecules where one
type of molecule is blended or dissolved
with another vinegar is an example of a
solution where the molecules of acetic
acid are blended with molecules of water
the chemical properties of the molecules
haven't changed they're just evenly
mixed together now salt water and
carbonated soda are both examples of
solutions where other molecules are
dissolved in water the last type of
mixture is called a colloid which is
somewhere between a suspension and a
solution it's when you take two
materials that don't dissolve and you
make
particles so small that they can't
separate Mayo is what happens when you
take oil and water which don't mix and
you bind them together usually with the
help of another substance called an
emulsifier in the case of mayo its
lecithin found in eggs and now you're
left with really small globs of oil
hanging out with really small droplets
of water with cream hairspray styrofoam
and jello are all other examples of
colloids so let's get back to macaroni
salad you've got colloids like Mayo
suspensions like mustard and solutions
like vinegar but you've also got celery
shallots and all other vegetable chunks
that are also part of the salad these
aren't mixtures really but we can break
them up just like a TV can be broken up
into smaller and smaller complex
component parts in the case of
vegetables if you keep breaking things
up they'll eventually end with thousands
of complex organic molecules things like
ATP synthase and RNA transcriptase and
water so now once we've unblended all
the solutions unmixed all the colloids
separated all the suspensions and take
it apart all of our vegetables we've
reached the end of what we can unmix
physically what we're left with is a
whole bunch of molecules and these
molecules remain chemically the same
whether they are by themselves or thrown
together in a salad if you want to
separate these guys even further we need
to unmix things chemically which means
we need to start breaking some bonds
you